---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflection on Javascript
date: 2017-01-18
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

So far Javascript has been a very fun language to learn.  One of the first things that pops out as something that is great, is the API.  Like Java, Javascript has a very well done API.  Doing tasks that can be a bit tedious in other languages , like adding a string to an array, are easy in Javascript.  The language itself is geared towards usability.  Anyone can learn Javascript and make it work with little to no issues.  The language itself is not fussy when it comes to syntax.  And writing simple programs is a breeze.  I feel this language is good for people who already have a couple of languages under their belt.  

In my opinion Javascript is not the best idea for beginners who are serious in learning other languages.  Because of the low difficulty and simplicity, it is almost a bad thing for new coders. Take the c language for example.  Trying to learn c is challenging because it is so simple with next to no API.  You are forced to do everything yourself and you need to know what every line of code does, otherwise you will not be able to fix your code.  Having to know every minute detail of the c language makes you a strong programmer.  So once you move up to the languages like Java, and Javascript.  They are easy to learn because you already know how the API’s work because you had to make them from scratch back in c.


The WODs so far have been useful.  I enjoy the problems in a sense they are simple to figure out but when you have to turn around and actually write the code in the given timeframe can be very stress inducing.  So far the WODs for me have been difficult but I feel they will get easier the more I work on them.  I am an individual who likes to take time when coming up with code.  I like to work on it over a few days and keep tweaking it until it is absolutely perfect and free of bugs.  Doing this in a timed setting can be stressful.   But since I am going to be attending all the practice WODs both with the TA, and on my own, I feel I will be better prepared in the future and it will get easier and less stressful.   
