---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Meteor, the client-server application from space"
date: 2017-03-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
  - Personal  Experiences
---


Meteor has been one of the more difficult software architectures to learn so far in my young software
engineering career.  Just like anything new, Meteor has a steep learning curve and can be tricky to
effectively build things in it.  But it is well worth the trouble to learn.  Meteor is the culmination
of HTML, CSS, Javascript, and semantic UI all rolled up into a beautiful burrito of software.  If one of
these pieces were to go missing, the rest of it will crumble, but all together it creates a powerful web
tool that any software engineer would be proud to know.


One of the things I found very difficult about meteor is the directories.  The fact that the database you
will be working with is very large, trying to find where to put a new snippet of code can take almost just
as long as coming up with the code in the first place.  You have to put a conscious effort into knowing
where everything is in relation to each other.  But the more you get familiar with meteor, such as loading
directories, you will get more and more comfortable  working with it.  A lot of files have identical names
but will be in different directories, so knowing which file is which and how they relate to the web app
you are creating, is a key component in learning how to effectively design and create powerful web apps.
I think that understanding Meteor, and why different files are in different directories is a big key
to success.


One of the things I found very easy in meteor is bug testing.  Often times when meteor crashed, it will
tell the user exactly where the problem is persisting at making it a quick fix.  I also really enjoyed
the amount of powerful tools you can use with Meteor.  Where Semantic UI made your website look great
and professional, Meteor gave it the brains to be functional and have enough features to make your web
app more structured.


Overall I have really enjoyed Meteor and being able to use it to develop websites.  I have only begun to
scratch the surface when it comes to all of the different things I can do with Meteor.  As I stated before,
Meteor is what ties all of the pieces that make up a website.  It's what is probably the most important tool
when it comes to building a web app.  I feel that if I put more time and effort into learning more about
Meteor, I will be able to better myself as a software engineer.  Even though Meteor can seem like something
out of this world and alien to a software engineer, taking the time to unlock the potential of Meteor will
lead to websites that will not only mystify most people, but they  will admire the individual who created
it.
