---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why online privacy invasion is only the tip of the iceberg.
date: 2017-05-01
labels:
- Coding
- Ethics
- Privacy
- Government
---


In today's world, ethics plays a huge part in what is developed and researched.  Take for
instance the Cold War.  The United States of America was in a technological arms race with
the Soviet Union for over four decades, yet not a single shot was fired at either country.  Because
of this we have received numerous technological advancements directly and indirectly from the Cold War, including computers for personal use.  During this time, people feared the use and development of Intercontinental ballistic missiles, and in a sense it would lead to the nuclear extinction of mankind.  Today, people are fearing more and more about privacy from their local government, most importantly,
internet history.


To get a better understanding of where we are at today with privacy laws regarding the internet, we need to
look back to the weeks following 9/11/01.  On October 26, 2001 the USA Patriot act was signed into law.  
This law meant, the United States government had much more power to invade privacy of not only enemies of
the United States, but also the American people.  Because of this, federal agents had the ability to begin
snooping on confidential information of American citizens in the name of preventing terrorism.  Because of this new law, the federal government was able to spy on citizens if they had any reason to believe they were a terrorist, or any way linked with terrorism.  This act was the Pandora's box of internet security and privacy in the United Sates.  Fast forward to 2013.  Edward Snowden, an American C.I.A employee and contractor, revealed to the American public about the NSA surveillance.  After the word got out, the American public was outraged.  Because of the severity  of revealing classified government secrets, he fled to Moscow Russia to escape the law of the United States. Because of his sacrifice, the world knew of the united states government and the illegal viewing of internet activity.


The private sector is also at fault for illegal spying and collecting of data from individuals.  In 2010,
Google StreetView was caught stealing personal information from unsecured Wi-Fi routers.  They were eventually fined $25,000, and later settled for $7,000,000 dollars out of court.  This data that was collected not only contained passwords, but also included medical and financial records.  This invasion and theft of personal data just went to show that nobody is exempt from these types of fraudulent activities.


My stance to these types of ethical dilemmas is that everyone needs to be held to the same standards.  Whether your a multi-billion software giant like Google, or you are a large government agency like the NSA, the boundaries between what is right and what is wrong need to be clear.  I feel that the stance of the American government, and the excuse that an invasion of piracy is to stop terrorism is wrong.  It is using an unjust tactic for what is thought to be a just reason.  I feel terrorism is awful and needs to be dealt with, but in the right ways.  Without some control, I feel the United States government will eventually use terrorism as an excuse for not only invasion of privacy, but also could lead to other things, such as drone strikes on "suspected" terrorist on American soil.
